okay we're going to show you how to flow
two and a half solid bore nozzle it's
got the inch in and a tip on it
we're going to be flowing two hundred
and eighty two hundred sixty-six gallons
a minute the first way is what you know
basically Superman style you're hanging
on for dear life and you're using total
arm strength to hold this thing up what
you'll find is you can't hold much water
without starting to fall backwards
you're just doing this all with arm
strength this is the least efficient way
to flow a big water line
hey guys switch over
a much smarter way is to grab your
straps that you got
put them around the nozzle or I put them
round the hose gonna run them across
your back reason to do that is if you
lose this nozzle it'll spin you away
from the nozzle if you hold it to the
back but now the nozzle man is going to
make sure that he's got lots of pressure
on his strap the guy behind him is going
to get as much pressure as he can has
strap go ahead it helps the guy in the
back is applying pressure to your
shoulder the nozzle and shoulders
getting pushed back right now their
bodies are taking the nozzle reaction
it's going 266 gallons a minute two guys
standing up there doing just great but
the smartest way go ahead and shut it
down
not to use your arms at all is the sit
on the darn thing and put nozzle
reaction into the ground we're going to
have one person here Flo 266 gallons by
himself the guy behind them can help by
just putting this foot on the line to
add a little more friction loss but the
idea is you start the nozzle point it up
is pretty high in the air until you get
comfortable open it up right now the
nozzle reaction is going into the ground
and set it into the firefighter and then
as he feels comfortable he's going to
lower the stream down so it's effective
if he starts to slide backwards all he
has to do is lift it up most of it you
were taught in your Fire Academy to make
a nice big loop and tie it up and so it
makes a fixed position
unfortunately that puts you in a fixed
position with the line and we want you
moving if the fire doesn't go out at
about 15 to 30 seconds right now one
person is having no trouble at all
blowing 260 plus gallons a minute